his philosophy regarding beer is simple
number one love beer number two share
the love Joe sutler is known as the beer
chef he's teamed up with the new
third-base brewery to celebrate st.
Patrick's Day with traditional fare
joining me live now is the beer chef
himself chose don't lurk Good Morning
Joe good morning or as they say in
Ireland a hundred thousand welcomes a
hundred thousand welcomes to you too now
you say you like to combine your two
passions food and beer now how do you do
that um love beer love food eat try them
experience them play with the pallets
try different things do all your recipes
have beer in them most of them do or I
find a way to either incorporate the
beer into it or with it beer pairs with
so many things it's even more versatile
than than wine it's it's beer as the new
wine is a lot of folks are starting to
say I got that one from an Kapler at the
Gazette actually but I've heard it other
places as well now you're the founder of
beer university that's my kind of school
tell me about that well beer use it's an
offshoot of classes that I started
teaching with kirkwood beer appreciation
classes we saw that they did wine
classes and we thought why not beer with
the growth of the micro breweries and
you know the imports have been around
for a while the world of beer is just
exploding national beer wholesalers
Association did the cooking with beer
challenge last year chefs are starting
to incorporate more beer saw Rachel Ray
had beer and one of her recipes not too
long ago it's it's one of those growing
things so I just thought why not combine
these two and expand on more than just
your appreciation tell us about what
we're going to make today we're making
an Irish a traditional Irish dish today
called boxty boxty is essentially potato
pancakes
and they can be made sweet or savory so
you can top them with you know in maple
syrup brown sugar sugar butter you know
apple pie filling jam things like that
you can also fill them or cover them
with stews have them with sausages it's
a traditional dish over there that they
eat both sweet and savory and it's it's
in practically all the pubs in Dublin
and other places I've been in Ireland it
delicious easy to make very simple and
inexpensive too and what are some of the
ingredients in box tea it's pretty
simple you've got some mashed potato you
use leftover mashed potatoes some
shredded potato or grated potato a
little bit of flour a little bit of
butter a little salt little baking
powder and in this case here and you
have a potato in your hand you're ready
to make it and we'll be back live with
Joe later on in the show on how to make
boxee showing up on good day Iowa boxty
on the griddle boxee on the pan if you
can't make boxy you'll never get a man
that's the official poem for this dish
joining me live now the teaches how to
get a man I mean make foxy is the beer
chef himself shows sutler good morning
joe good morning boxy is a traditional
irish potato pancake first off go
through how to make it it's pretty
simple you start with mashed potatoes
use about cup of mashed potatoes I use
leftover mashed potatoes works fine but
you can mash them yourself add to that
about a cup of grated potato or shredded
potato incorporate those together mix
well we do that in a second set it aside
then you add your dry ingredients which
is about a cup to a cup and a half of
flour about a teaspoon of baking powder
and about a teaspoon of salt mix those
together whisk well then you're going to
incorporate the two together you bring
them together and you know we have to
add some beer to this trev I need a beer
Thank You the Tilted Kilt this is the
third base breweries tilted kilt this is
their Irish beer for the season a nice
Irish amber kind of beer you mix that in
you incorporate it stir it all together
and you'll end up with a kind of a thick
pancake like batter it's pretty simple
take your thick pancake like batter
we've got some here already we've been
snacking on this a little bit already
put it on the grill just like you would
a regular pancake
after a few minutes flip it so you get
them nice and golden brown but once both
sides you get all golden brown throw it
on a plate and here we put some
strawberry jam and some chocolate stout
sauce on here and this is made with a
dark chocolate melted in a double boiler
about a quarter cup of corn syrup and
quarter to a half cup of a nice stout
and you'll get a really rich chocolatey
flavor this is where this is what we're
eating for breakfast here this morning
your camera guy has been snarfing on the
left and right real simple to do if you
wanted to make a savory dish you could
do the same thing lay out your pancakes
put on some stew put on some sausage
gravy whatever you whatever you like you
guys better bring some back here so
where do we go to get the recipe you can
go to ww beer you calm okay and I heard
you earned a trip to New York City to
compete in the 2006 cooking with fear
finals what was that like oh that was
such a great experience we went out to
New York tail end of november spent
about five days out there we got to go
to bobby flay's restaurant have dinner
drank a lot of different beers met a lot
of different people from all over the
country and had a great time with the
competition and will you be cooking up
more of this dish at the third base fury
this weekend well actually this weekend
what we're doing is a traditional Irish
stew made with of course the stout beer
here and probably some of the Tilted
Kilt some lamb and vegetables and all
that we're going to be having a brown
bread and Irish brown bread and Irish
shortbread with some fun toppings and
such on it and when did you start
cooking with fear oh I've been doing it
since you know pretty much as long as
I've been cooking I I love to cook and
I've always been a fan of a beer that
the flavors of beer when I moved back
from Germany in the mid 80s I couldn't
find a beer that I really thought was a
decent beer after living in the land of
beer kind of thing so I really started
developing my palate over there and then
in traveling all over the world have
experienced some really great beers some
really great foods
and it just made sense to start
combining them after seeing other people
doing this and a lot of the pubs and
like that beer has been around for
roughly 10,000 years and it's been an
integral part of cooking for almost as
long especially in the Middle Ages and
even in colonial America beer was
something healthy and healthful to drink
it was much safer than the water and you
get a lot of flavors and character that
you know water something like that
wouldn't necessarily bring and how many
different flavors of beer do you think
you've had oh I I would lose track I
know I've been to about 300 different
breweries micro breweries and brewpubs
around the world multiply that times
probably six to seven beers at each
place and that's not counting the
commercial beers and so on so I home
brewers and everything else I've lost
track and st. Patrick's Day it's a great
day to try any recipe the boxee looks
delicious thanks Joe you're very welcome